---
title: 'Booming Sector, Multinationals, and Local Economic Development'
date: 2022-10-10
permalink: /posts/2013/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Exhaustible Resources
  - Dutch Disease
  - Local Labor Markets
---

Can a resource boom induce long-term local economic development? Do multinational companies (MNCs) foster such equilibria or move away the economic gains from the booming sector? This study examines the heterogeneous economic impacts of MNCs and domestic firms on the characterization of the long-term general equilibrium effects of resource booms in local labor markets. Informed by a spatial equilibrium model, the empirical analysis exploits predetermined geology to identify the average and heterogeneous economic impacts of a resource boom in an emerging resource-oriented country. Consistent with the model’s predictions for the firm, the evidence suggests that spillovers from productive linkages of the booming sector can prevent productivity losses by crowding-out effects in the form of local Dutch-Disease. However, these spillovers are limited by the MNCs’ propensity to offshoring. Regarding the workers, these heterogeneous impacts are explained by the fact that MNCs pay higher wages and induce higher local rents than domestic firms. Nevertheless, dis-amenities rising from environmental externalities are more relevant in inducing a long-term decrease in social welfare. Therefore, depending on the size of these effects, a resource boom in an emerging economy dominated by MNCs is likely to induce an equilibrium with enclave features, even in the presence of contemporaneous positive effects.

Recommended citation: Soto-Diaz, J. (2022). "Booming Sector, Multinationals, and Local Economic Development." 

[Download working paper here](https://rdcu.be/cW9RS)



